Cybersecurity terms with definitions:


AWS: Amazon Web Services, a leading cloud platform
providing many security services and tools.

Data Breach: An incident where protected or sensitive
information is accessed or stolen without
authorization.

Encryption: The process of scrambling data using
mathematical algorithms, making it unreadable without
a decryption key. Encryption helps protect data
confidentiality.

Enterprise Password Management: Solutions for storing,
managing, and provisioning passwords across an
organization, enforcing strong password policies and
automating resets.

Exploit: A piece of code or technique designed to take
advantage of a vulnerability in order to gain
unauthorized access to a system.

Firewall:  A network security device (hardware or
software) designed to block unauthorized traffic and
prevent outsiders from accessing private networks
connected to the internet

Firewalls and Networking: Hardware or software that
controls traffic flow between networks using sets of
rules, creating a barrier between trusted and
untrusted networks.

Identity Providers (IdP): Services that create,
maintain, and manage digital identities. They store
user data, handle authentication, and often enable
single sign-on capabilities.

Identity and Access Management (IAM): A framework of
technologies and policies that control user access to
technology resources. IAM systems manage user
identities and their associated permissions across
different systems.

Intrusion Detection System (IDS): A software or device
that monitors networks for malicious activity or
policy violations and raises alerts.

Key Rotation: Periodic changing of cryptographic keys
to reduce the risk of exploitation if a key is
compromised.

Malware: Short for "malicious software." A broad term
for software designed to harm a computer system.
Examples include viruses, ransomware, spyware, and
trojan horses.

Mobile Device Management (MDM): Software solutions
that give administrators control over mobile devices
employees use for work, enforcing security policies,
software updates, and restrictions.

Patch: Software updates that fix vulnerabilities to
prevent future exploits.

Phishing: Fraudulent attempts to acquire sensitive
information (like usernames, passwords, and credit
card numbers) by posing as a trustworthy source, often
through emails or fake websites.

Proxy: An intermediary server that acts as a gateway
between a client and a server, masking the client's
true IP address and providing traffic control and
filtering.

Python: A popular programming language widely used in
cybersecurity for developing automation scripts,
vulnerability scanning tools, and security analyses.

Ransomware:  Malware that encrypts a victim's files
and demands payment for the decryption key.

Role-Based Access Control (RBAC): An access management
model where permissions are assigned to roles rather
than individual users. Users get access based on the
roles they have, simplifying permission management.

SSL Inspection: The process of intercepting and
inspecting encrypted SSL/TLS traffic to identify and
block malicious content or activity.

Secrets Management: Tools and processes for securely
storing and managing sensitive credentials like API
keys, passwords, and certificates.

Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML): An XML-
based standard for exchanging authentication and
authorization data between an Identity Provider (IdP)
and service providers. This facilitates single sign-
on.

Security Information and Event Management (SIEM):
Software that collects and analyzes log data from
various sources across a network, providing  real-time
threat detection and  analysis.

Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response
(SOAR): Solutions that integrate with various security
tools, automating incident response, investigation,
and remediation.

Security Posturing: The overall assessment of an
organization's cybersecurity readiness, identifying
strengths, weaknesses, and areas for improvement.

Single Sign-On (SSO): An authentication mechanism that
allows a user to log in once and access multiple
systems or applications without entering separate
credentials for each.

Spyware: A type of malware designed to secretly
collect information about a user's activity, such as
passwords, browsing history, or financial data.

System for Cross Domain Identity Management (SCIM): A
standard for automating the exchange of user identity
information between systems and domains. SCIM
streamlines user provisioning and de-provisioning
processes.

Terraform: An open-source tool for defining and
managing IT infrastructure as code, often used for
provisioning and managing cloud resources and security
configurations.

Trojan Horse: A malicious program disguised as
legitimate software. Once opened, Trojans can perform
various harmful actions, such as stealing data or
allowing remote access to the infected system.

Virtual Private Network (VPN): Creates a secure,
encrypted connection over public networks (like the
Internet), providing remote users with secure access
to internal networks and resources.

Virus: A self-replicating malware program that spreads
by attaching itself to other files or programs.
Viruses can damage data, steal information, or disrupt
operations.

Vulnerability: A weakness or flaw in a system or
network that can be exploited by attackers.

Zero Trust Network Access (ZTNA): A model for securely
accessing applications and resources based on Zero
Trust principles. ZTNA creates micro-perimeters around
specific resources rather than relying on broad
network segmentation.

Zero Trust: A cybersecurity philosophy based on the
idea of "never trust, always verify."  It enforces
strict authentication and authorization for every user
and device, regardless of location or previous
connection history.

Zero-trust Security: An approach to cybersecurity that
assumes no user or device should automatically be
trusted. It requires continuous verification before
granting access or permissions.



